### Constraints Essay
The development of Attendin, a geofence based attendance application, is guided by a few major constraints that we must take into consideration. First is that we must complete the application within a seven-month timeline, which is already less than major companies spend on a single project. Along with that we have a limited budget and are using exclusively free or low-cost development tool. Tools like flutter come in very helpful as they are free to develop on, and able to develop cross platform applications making it easier to develop for Android, IOS, and a Web environment. A legal constraint that we are bound by are regulations like FERPA, which sets a non-negotiable standard for how we must protect student data. This legal duty ensures that student privacy stays private. We must guarantee that location data is used only for attendance so we can build and maintain user trust. Another major social constraint is the core requirement that every student must possess a location aware device, which could present a potential issue if there are students who may not have one, and we will have to be conscious and allow faculty to check the student in if this is the case. From a more technical view, we must achieve at least 90% accuracy on all check-ins. This high standard of reliability is a constraint so that our application can function correctly and quickly.  Overall, considering these major constrains will dictate the final form and function of our project.