### Individual Capstone Assessment – Dominic Iquina
My senior design project, named AttendIn, aims to create a modern system to track attendance in the university/classroom setting.  The main technologies this will be using is a geo-fence system utilizing location to allow the student to mark themselves as present. While many of my classes have been more software focused, all my coop experiences have been on the embedded systems side, this project is a great opportunity to explore more software and mobile app development and to sharpen my skills. Since it’s a two-person team, I will be working on all parts of the application, the app itself, the location-based tracking, and the security behind it. I’m most excited about the communication between the students and the professors and the best way to get the check in system working. The project is a perfect way to expand my skill set from not only embedded to a complete software application.

Throughout my college career, I’ve had many opportunities that will guide the development of my project. The first course that will be very helpful is EECE3093C, Software Engineering. This course taught me all about designing software from the ground up, how to create good designs, and create requirements to fully create software. Another course that I’m currently taking but will be very helpful through the process is EECE5132, Software Testing & Quality Assurance. This course will be helpful as it teaches me how to test software, how to test for edge cases, and how to make sure that we have good test coverage and testability to create good software. It will teach me more about the process of making sure our application is good for production and making sure we don’t have bugs in the process. The final class that will be helpful is CS4092, Database Design and Development. This class is going to be helpful for how we should store the data that we get, and how we can access it from either the faculty side or the student side.

While my university courses have provided a strong theoretical foundation, my coop experiences are where I learned to apply those concepts to solve real world problems along with learning how the development process flows in the field. All my coop rotations so far have been at GE Appliances, though each rotation has taught me something new and different. My first two rotations I was on front-end development teams, working in Flutter, and during these rotations where I started to learn how the development process flows and what goes into a project, specifically for the front end. A lot of it was learning how to use certain technologies and getting used to a TDD approach along with an Agile methodology. On my second rotation I was tasked with creating a prototype for an app from scratch and had to create my own requirements and learn to solo develop. During my third rotation, however, was where I really started to learn how to become a part of the team, owning my own work, contributing to others’ ideas, and becoming intertwined with the development process of bigger features.

My motivation for developing Attendin stems from my own classroom experiences with how tough and inefficient it is to track attendance accurately. I’ve personally seen how ineffective many attendance systems are, where a single QR code or password is often shared among students, allowing friends to sign in without being present. Another is pencil and paper where the students write their name down, but this is very time consuming. Along with that having hundreds of students, a friend of the student may put their name down, even if they are not present. This is precisely why our preliminary approach is to build a system where attendance is tied to the student’s physical location. We plan to develop a mobile application that uses the device’s GPS to verify the student is within the classroom’s predefined geo-fence.

The expected result of our project is a functional Flutter application, that can be run on Android or iPhone, that can accurately track student attendance within a specific geo-fence. Along with that creating a faculty friendly interface for teachers to view or modify any attendance records. The primary accomplishment will be to create a system that prevents common forms of attendance fraud, such as sharing QR codes. For evaluation of my contributions, I will make sure we have reliable features, have met any deadlines, and have had a collaborative effort throughout. I’ll know if I’ve done a good job if the code is clean and efficient, and easy for someone else to understand and build upon it. Ultimately the success of this project will not only be measured by the final product, but by the professional habits and teamwork demonstrated along the way.