## Individual Assessment:

For my Attendin project, my primary individual contribution was creating the backend architecture and data management. Specifically, I led the Firebase implementation to handle our database needs and developed the core methods for data retrieval and caching. This involved creating a backend that was needed to support both the student app, for geofenced check-ins and an admin app for faculty to manage attendance records and classes. In my fall assessment, I set a goal to expand my skill set past my previous embedded systems experience into a complete software and mobile application development. I successfully worked towards this objective by utilizing flutter to create a cross-platform solution. By using previous class knowledge, I was able to ensure our Firebase structure was efficient and well organized to make the data flow simple.

While creating this application I deepened my understanding of flutter and learned much more about Firebase integration for real-time applications. To me, my biggest individual successes are the instant responsiveness of the apps together, along with the data caching that minimized our Firebase usage. Additionally creating two separate apps that work together is a big win. One of the biggest obstacles during this process was navigating cross-disciplinary integration. Since I was Computer Science and my partner was Computer Engineering, we had to have careful coordination. We overcame this by first creating a structural skeleton of the application. This made sure that when it was time to connect the Firebase backend, the integration was much smoother than if we didn’t set anything up initially.