## Individual Assessment:

### Part A, Self-Assessment:

For my Attendin project, my primary individual contribution was creating the backend architecture and data management. Specifically, I led the Firebase implementation to handle our database needs and developed the core methods for data retrieval and caching. This involved creating a backend that was needed to support both the student app, for geofenced check-ins and an admin app for faculty to manage attendance records and classes. In my fall assessment, I set a goal to expand my skill set past my previous embedded systems experience into a complete software and mobile application development. I successfully worked towards this objective by utilizing flutter to create a cross-platform solution. By using previous class knowledge, I was able to ensure our Firebase structure was efficient and well organized to make the data flow simple.

While creating this application I deepened my understanding of flutter and learned much more about Firebase integration for real-time applications. To me, my biggest individual successes are the instant responsiveness of the apps together, along with the data caching that minimized our Firebase usage. Additionally creating two separate apps that work together is a big win. One of the biggest obstacles during this process was navigating cross-disciplinary integration. Since I was Computer Science and my partner was Computer Engineering, we had to have careful coordination. We overcame this by first creating a structural skeleton of the application. This made sure that when it was time to connect the Firebase backend, the integration was much smoother than if we didn’t set anything up initially.

### Part B, Team-Assessment:

Our group successfully accomplished all our primary goals for Attendin, creating a fully functional system that accurately tracks student attendance. Along with our original objectives, we exceeded our initial scope by having multiple attendance methods into the application, providing valuable flexibility for both students and faculty. To keep our development going, we used GitHub Projects to create and track issue tickets. This system helped us to organize our workflow and ensured we didn’t overlook any necessary features. 

While our teamwork was successful in delivering the final project, there were some parts that could have been improved. Our pacing was somewhat inconsistent, we would work in bursts to get ahead, then afterwards we would wait to work on the project itself and would instead work on the paperwork for it. We could have benefited from a more regular work schedule, though we ultimately got everything done on time. For overall effort, our workload was almost perfectly equal and shifted based on the project status. My partner handled a good amount of the initial workload by setting up the front end, while I took on a heavier load near the end to finalize the backend architecture and Firebase integration. My partner definitely deserves special recognition for their work on the application’s interface. They did a great job making the app look incredibly polished and user-friendly, which is not something I would have been able to achieve on my own.
